# Heredoc-Like Support for C++

This project attempts to provide the ability to express a multi-line
string in a heredoc-like fashion. Heredocs are common in BASH and Perl.

C++ offers raw strings - however they do not allow for beginning the string
on the next line - which is desirable when laying out an indented section
of text, such as a SQL statement.

Heredocs even allow a stanza to be indented and will automatically strip
the leading whitespace from the resulting string.

## Public Templates

### heredoc::PlainHeredoc

e.g.:

```cpp
static constexpr auto clean_query = heredoc::PlainHeredoc< R"(

    Line 1: No junk newline before me!
    Line 2: Indentation is explicitly kept.

    )" >();
```

This results in `clean_query` containing only 2 lines, both terminated with
a newline character, the leading empty line removed, the tailing empty text
removed, but the indent preserved.

### heredoc::IndentHeredoc

e.g.

```cpp
static constexpr auto clean_query = heredoc::IndentHeredoc< R"(
    SELECT
        username
    FROM
        account_credentials;
    )" >();
```

This results in `query` containing just 4 lines all terminated with a
newline character but hard aligned to the left, i.e.:

```sql
SELECT
    username
FROM
    account_credentials;
```

## Implementation

When `static` keyword is used this will store the resulting strings in the
compiled output, without it the compiler may attempt to do clever things
as these are all constant expressions (`constexpr`).

The idea is that the templates do all the string processing at compile-time
so that the extraneous characters represented by the raw string do not
end up in the output object code (or binary).

## Contributors

In large part the implementation was generated by Google's Gemini AI. A number
of improvements and corrections made by human.
